---
layout: post
title: "Programming Motherfucker or how I rediscovered my hacker spirit"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

When I was 18, still living at my parents house, a good friend of mine and me volunteered for Europe's biggest internet radio #Musik to rewrite their website. I was still a trainee at my current company and had a normal eight hours working day. But right after being done with that, and I arrived at home I started hacking on the website. It was a hilarious time, but I learned a lot and we had so much fun! We did a lot of mistakes, like writing our own framework and implementing every shitty component on our own. And even if PHP 5.3 was there at the time, we gave a fuck about name spacing our code and such.
Our final exam came. And right before, we launched the site. But when we were done, our ways divided and I became a Lead Developer at the company we were working at and got way to less time to hack on things I enjoy. I had way to much managing tasks back then. I just lived my programmers live, had some good and some bad times. Including awesome inspiring conferences, some cool projects and a shitload of new things I have learned.

When approximately 3 years later two friends and me had the idea of running our own conference. It was a roller coaster ride, and right in the end sprint of organizing the event, the other two guys got unemployed for (conference) unrelated reasons. So our default chit-chat topic was about what kind of business we could create. What could we do for a living? What would be fun?

In the middle of the discussion there was the idea in my head, a thing which bothers me for quite a long time. The year before I started becoming a conference speaker because I enjoy teaching and spreading the things I’ve learned so far. And on every conference I spoke I want to upload my slides and give that link to my audience. So they can check all the stuff I mentioned in my talk later on. But for me as a speaker uploading slides on a shitty conference wifi was always a hazel. The platforms around really bugs me, some were not free and didn’t followed the FLOSS principles others had just a bad UX. And viewing the slides on your tablet or mobile wasn’t possible at all (from a point of UX). And remember how often you are checking stuff on your phone/table on a conference. So I came up with the idea to create a slide hosting platform that does **not** suck, that was the moment where slidr.io was born. I just want to get rid of that pain I experienced so often.

Right in that Cafe we were sitting in I registered the domain (on my phone thanks to DNSimple) and due to that fact that 2013 was the year I finally want to dig deeper in ruby I decided to build it in Rails. I had the complete software stack in mind, it didn’t cost me any effort to think what I would need, I just knew what I want to build. So right when I went home I started hacking away. I hacked the whole night till the early morning hours, no matter if I had to go to work next morning again. I read a lot of docs and played around with rails, search for a plugin for handling auth and how to run a rails app on Heroku. I had a very very basic setup running at just that day. This moment is now about 50 days and 80 commits ago. And since that day I finally rediscovered my hacking spirit. I just want to get things done, I want to see progress on that tool I want to build. That tool I want to change the industry with.

As I mentioned I were at so many conferences and I saw so many fellow nerds hacking (not surfing Facebook) at every free minute they had. I was kind of jealous, because I knew that feeling but it was kinda lost for me for a very long time. But now I’m also one of these, grabbing my laptop in every free minute to improve what I’ve build so far. I hack when I wait at a Airport for my next flight. I hack at night, and meeting friends in a cafe, just to hack together. I asked a bad ass UX expert and friend of mine (Fabian) for help, and lucky me, he also really liked that idea and the challenge of creating some thing new on a green field. So as of now we are a team of two passionate developers / designers getting our own playground for new technologies we always wanted to play around with. And we don't just make a demo for the purpose of testing things, we are building a real app.

